#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Resume of J.
 Daniel Brumleve
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\family typewriter
jdb1729@gmail.com | 217-722-2642
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Synopsis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Software engineer with over 25 years experience in a variety of business
 and technical domains including distributed systems, information retrieval,
 security, cryptography, machine learning, 3D graphics and generative art.
 Author of two U.S.
 patents, one covering my innovations at Topsy (2013) and another encompassing
 my machine learning projects at MakeMore (2022).
 Discoverer of several major web security bugs covered by WSJ, NYT, including
 the first cross-site-scripting (XSS) vulnerability.
 Inventor of open-source cryptocurrencies dBarter (2000) and BankOfEuler
 (2007), and finder of lost bitcoins.
 Creator of Armageddon MUD (1991), one of the oldest continuously-operating
 internet games.
 Member of the Illinois Press Association and co-founder of the Ford County
 Chronicle (2020), an award-winning regional newspaper.
 Published mathematician and top-ranked StackExchange and MathOverflow contribut
or.
 Practiced in Linux, C++, perl, python, JavaScript.
 Familiar with modern development methodologies and tools including Scrum,
 Agile, Continuous Integration/Development, git and git-based workflows,
 Jira, AWS, GCP.
 Adaptable and autodidactive, helpful and communicative, setting a high
 standard for innovation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage clearpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Experience
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
MakeMore Software (Jan 2020 - present) - Founder
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Boutique machine learning start-up focused on generative art, augmented
 reality and foundational research.
 (Linux, C++, CUDA, perl, python)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
SEED Token (May 2018 - Sep 2018) - Software Engineer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Consulting for blockchain firm focused on the AI chatbot space.
 Developed prototypes for several generative text concepts.
 (Linux, C++, perl, Ethereum)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Apple (Nov 2013 - Aug 2017) - Individual Contributor (Software Engineer)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Leveraging technology developed at Topsy, created and maintained a system
 for real-time identification and ranking of news-related search terms for
 Apple's Spotlight Search product.
 (Linux, C, C++, perl, python, go)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Topsy (Feb 2008 - Nov 2013) - Software Engineer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Designed, built and maintained server-side software infrastructure for Topsy's
 Twitter search and analytics.
 Developed Sentiment, Related Terms, and Alerts product verticals.
 (Linux, C, C++, perl, python)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Imeem (Apr 2008 - Oct 2008) - Software Engineer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Designed and implemented an in-memory database as a caching layer in Imeem's
 .NET-based application server.
 (Linux, Win64, C#, .NET platform, Mono)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Snocap (Jul 2004 - Apr 2008) - Software Engineer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Built and maintained server-side software to enable content identification
 and licensing.
 Snocap developed a pioneering P2P music distribution system and was one
 of the first authorized digital music platforms that used the MP3 format.
 (Linux, C++, perl, python)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Cloudmark (Aug 2003 - Jun 2004) - Software Engineer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Designed and implemented spam signature algorithms used in Cloudmark's anti-spam
 products.
 (Linux, C, C++, perl).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
APL Engineered Materials (Oct 2002 - Apr 2003) - Software Engineer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Automated business processes for purchasing, invoicing, shipping, inventory
 control, time tracking.
 Designed combinatorial search algorithm for experimental production runs
 within inventory constraints.
 (Win16, Win32, MSIE, C++, JavaScript, MS SQL Server)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Napster (2001 - 2002) - Software Engineer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Maintained and developed napd, the Napster server.
 Integrated SSL and DRM support.
 (Linux, C, C++, perl) 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Hewlett-Packard (1998 - 1999) - Software Engineer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Developed e-commerce web applications for HP's intranet.
 (HP-UX, perl)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Wolfram Research (1995 - 1996) - Software Engineer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*
Developed and maintained company web site.
 Developed The Integrator, a web site showcasing Mathematica's symbolic
 integration capability.
 Developed e-marketing application for tracking sales leads.
 (assorted Unix platforms, C, perl, Mathematica)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage clearpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Patents
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Audio-visual simulation-generating neural network system
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
(U.S.
 Patent 11361563B2 – Issued June 14, 2022)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quotation
Embodiments of the present invention provide a system of interconnected
 neural networks capable audio-visual simulation generation by interpreting
 and processing a first image and, utilizing a given reference image or
 training set, modifying the first image such that the new image possesses
 parameters found within the reference image or training set.
 The images used and generated may include video.
 The system includes an autoposer, an automasker, an encoder, a generator,
 an improver, a discriminator, styler, and at least one training set of
 images or video.
 The system can also generate training sets for use within.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Systems and methods for discovery of related terms for social media content
 collection over social networks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
(U.S.
 Patent 20130304818A1 – Issued November 14, 2013)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
A new approach is proposed that contemplates systems and methods to discover
 one or more terms related to one or more query terms submitted by a user
 for search over a social media network, wherein the related terms discovered
 are trending and co-occurring with the submitted query terms over the social
 media network during a specific period of time.
 The terms related to the submitted keywords can be discovered based on
 based on various measurements that measure the trending characteristics
 of the terms in the social media content items collected over a period
 of time.
 Once the terms related to the submitted keywords have been discovered,
 they can be utilized to search or perform aggregated metrics and analytics
 on the social network together with the user-submitted query terms for
 content items containing all or most of the query terms and/or the related
 terms, wherein such content items obtained are presented as the search
 result to the user or subject to aggregate metrics and analytics presented
 to the user.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph*

\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Publications
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
The mate-in-n problem of infinite chess is decidable
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
(CiE12: Proceedings of the 8th Turing Centenary Conference on Computability
 in Europe: how the world computes – June 2012)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Quote
Infinite chess is chess played on an infinite edgeless chessboard.
 The familiar chess pieces move about according to their usual chess rules,
 and each player strives to place the opposing king into checkmate.
 The mate-in-n problem of infinite chess is the problem of determining whether
 a designated player can force a win from a given finite position in at
 most n moves.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
