#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
collaborative synthesis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Dan Brumleve
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
February 28, 2019
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Collaborative synthesis means people creating something together, guided
 by a synthesis algorithm that is simultaneously learning from what those
 people are creating.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Most abstractly, it fits almost any situation.
 It's like painting with a friend on the same canvas, while the algorithm
 is like another who observes and mixes the paints for you, or makes suggestions
 to help you both cooperate and create a coherent whole.
 Or the algorithm is like the paint itself, pre-mixed and also "synthetic"
 in the ordinary physical sense — there's a feedback loop in this situation
 too, as the manufacturer produces more of the kinds of paints that painters
 like to use.
 The synthesis also operates as a constraint or filter — you can only use
 the paints that are available to you in this analogy, not any kind you
 can imagine.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Applied to software and more narrowly construed, collaborative synthesis
 means using machine-learned algorithms to perform the synthesis while training
 those same algorithms directly from user actions, creating an always-evolving
 synergy.
 Those algorithms can be anchored to external data sources by persistent
 training, or they can be left to drift, influenced only by the feedback
 loop.
 Training can be configured by the user, but also by automated analytics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
makemore peaple is a general-purpose collaborative image synthesizer based
 on neural networks designed to communicate and explore the concept in a
 fun, educational, and engaging way and cultivate a unique creative community.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
