#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
moretp
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Dan Brumleve
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
February 28, 2019
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
moretp is a simple text protocol that allows embedding of binary data.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The TCP byte stream is divided into packets.
 A packet is a line terminated by '
\backslash
n' followed by an optional binary part, representing a list of strings.
 When decoding a packet, lines are processed to remove leading and trailing
 whitespace and all other whitespace sequences are normalized to a single
 ' '.
 After this processing, each line corresponds uniquely to a sequence of
 non-empty, non-whitespace-containing words.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If any word in a line begins with '<', the rest of the word is passed to
 strtoul(3) to get a byte count.
 The total byte count of the words in the line is the length of the binary
 part of the packet.
 To complete decoding of the packet, each word beginning with '<' is replaced
 by the corresponding bytes in the packet's binary part.
 Then the resulting word list is the decoded packet.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To encode a moretp packet, start with a list of a strings.
 An empty list corresponds to the packet "
\backslash
n".
 If none of the strings contain any whitespace, then the packet is the list
 joined by ' ' and terminated by '
\backslash
n'.
 If any string contains whitespace, replace it with '<' followed by its
 length prior to the joining, and append the original string to the final
 packet.
 Or, do this for every string whether or not it contains whitespace.
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Example
A moretp encoder in perl.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verbatim
sub moretpenc {
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verbatim
  join(' ', map /
\backslash
s/ ? "<" .
 length : $_, @_) .
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verbatim
  "
\backslash
n" .
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verbatim
  join('', grep /
\backslash
s/, @_)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verbatim
} 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
