#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
moredos
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Dan Brumleve
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
March 17, 2019
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
moredos is a simplified Unix-like operating system and command library I
 made to run peaple.io.
 A moredos instance consists of some commands and processes and I/O queues.
 Processes read from I/O queues and write to them, like Unix pipes, facilitating
 shell-like scripting of command pipelines and sequences.
 The shmore shell used in peaple.io is implemented as a command itself, the
 built-in moredos 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

sh
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 command.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In Unix, pipes carry bytes, but in moredos entire 
\emph on
lines
\emph default
 are passed atomically and by reference.
 A line is a vector of 
\emph on
words
\emph default
, and a word is a counted reference to a byte string which may reside in
 either GPU or main memory.
 This hidden device identifier is accessed through the moredos API which
 also allows a process to relocate words between devices.
 Thus it is possible to pipe data between processes without it ever leaving
 the GPU.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Unix commands like 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

cut
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

sort
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

join
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

paste
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

xargs
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 specify a delimiter string and then interpret the input byte stream as
 a table.
 All of these commands and more have equivalents in the built-in library
 (without the need for the delimiter).
 Passing of entire lines and words by reference can have benefits over the
 Unix way way of buffering the underlying bytes, for example the moredos
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

cat
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 command copies the line reference only, doing the same work no matter how
 many words the line contains; the moredos 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

cut
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 command creates a new output line containing references to the specified
 input words, doing the same work no matter the size of those words and
 preserving their device locations.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The moredos API wraps some of the host OS API, like file and socket operations
 that operate on byte strings.
 Lines that are imported or exported in this way are encoded to bytes using
 the moretp packet format, facilitating programmatic interaction as well
 as direct human interaction over telnet.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
