#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass amsart
\use_default_options true
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
eqs-within-sections
figs-within-sections
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
mork
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Dan Brumleve
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
March 17, 2019
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
mork is a 2x3 16-color byte font.
 It is designed for OCR test applications, as well as maximum human readability
 subject to the size constraint.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The colors are red, green, blue, yellow, magenta, cyan, white, darker versions
 of each, orange, and black.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Lower-case letters have a black top row.
 The upper-case letter is created by replacing the top row of the lower-case
 letter with a copy of its middle row.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Vowels are horizontal stripes of the same hue, a bright row in the middle
 with a dark row underneath.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Lip-formed letters p, b, m, w are solid bright colors.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Throat-formed letters like c, g, h, k are vertical stripes of the same hue,
 a bright column on the left with a dark column on the right.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Tongue-formed letters like d, s, t are checker-board patterns with contrasting
 hues.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Other letters are formed from three similar pixels along with a contrasting
 one, at different rotations.
 The letters l, r, v, n are chosen to resemble their Latin forms.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Digits are represented by a green pixel in the upper left corner, and two
 other white pixels (there are exactly 10 possible ways for 2 white pixels
 to occupy the 5 remaining spaces).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Punctuation glyphs are generally chosen to resemble the Latin form, and
 to be distinct from letters and numbers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A mork glyph can be packed into 3 bytes, defining the moretf24 text encoding.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
